Hey, I'm Alan. I'm here with Brent. Brent, say hi.
Hi, guys.
Hey, we are going to be crazy and try and do a podcast because we're, I have no, I was going to say we're really stupid, but what are we, Brent? Why are we doing a podcast?
Well, you know, Alan, we're kind of learning and figuring that out.
What we're experimenting on is whether or not this is a medium that will help ourselves grow as communicators and help the test community around us to learn and adapt and change with these changes that are coming on.
Was that serious, man? I was just thinking we just want to listen to ourselves talk for a while because...
Well, there is definitely a non-trivial bit of that, Alan.
Well, all right, we're going to give it a shot.
Brent and I have a history of having animated cartoons.
We've had conversations at Microsoft.
We thought we'd try and capture some of those and share those with the world for as many as two, maybe four people.
That's our goal.
I don't know if we have goals yet.
I think if we can get most of the architect group that we participate in, we could get even as high as six.
We're going to be awesome.
So if you guys don't know me, I'm Alan Page.
I've contributed to a few books on software testing, try and stay active in the community, been at Microsoft for just about 20 years.
And with me...
My name is Brent.
And Brent, talk about yourself for a minute.
I am Brent Jensen.
I've been at Microsoft for the last 20 years.
In the last, gosh, five years, I've followed Alan's lead and been an active blogger.
I'm not quite as attached to the community as Alan is, but I'm learning from the master.
I like to joke...
You're in trouble.
I like to joke.
That I currently get tens of views on my blog every week.
But it's okay.
The tens that I get are important ones to me.
So we have some topics on the whiteboard you can't see.
We're going to kind of look at those and probably stray from them greatly.
And we'll do this every so often and kind of see what happens.
So how should we start this, Brent?
Well, so just to carry on from that.
One of the things that Alan and I...
Have been really starting to pick up throughout Microsoft.
It's this concept of Lean Coffee.
And that's how we'll start off these podcasts.
So we'll generate a list.
We may or may not share all of them with you.
And we'll just go through the top in terms of what we think is the high priority that's of interest.
New blog title.
Alan and Brent.
Lean Coffee Live.
No?
Maybe that's the name of the podcast.
We don't have a name yet.
I thought it was A.V. Testing.
Alan and Brent Testing.
Yeah, you know.
So on that theme, I'm...
Maybe both of our listeners can vote.
Except it'll be you and I.
Yeah, the thing about A.V. Testing, I like it because it's about quality.
But it contains the word test.
What's wrong with the word test, Brent?
Well, we'll talk about that a bit later.
Let me just say in terms of credibility.
One of the things that I have done...
Most of my career at Microsoft, the title that I've worn is test manager for the majority of that career.
I've been in test for...
I've held just about every position you can have with the acceptance of director.
And my partner in crime here has held that title.
Yeah, I was a director with five director...
No, six director parts.
Director's director.
But...
I don't even like managing people.
The number one...
Change that has occurred in my life was when I gave up the title of test and I shifted over to Bing.
And if there's anything that I could give the test community today as a gift,
it would be the experience I had when I went to Bing.
The number one thing that I learned is the difference between testing and quality.
When I head over to Bing, I took on a dev role, but I still wore my test hat.
And one of the most important things I learned very quickly in Bing is how little value bugs are when you're shipping every day.
In Bing, everything changes every single day.
You have...
Every layer of the stack, devs changing.
You have the UI changing.
Bing has a seasonality aspect to it in which what's important changes.
So news today is not going to be the same news next week.
And filing a bug just doesn't end up being helpful to moving the quality forward.
But...
So I was going to ask a very leading and stupid question.
Isn't it tester's job to find bugs?
It is.
Over, Deb.
I don't really think that.
That's a neat take.
I need the computer voice.
Yeah.
When you're in a test manager role, one of the key things that you often have to do is you got to do things like schedule test passes.
Right?
And one of the things that I learned very quickly is, wow, if I were a test manager on this team, it would simply not work.
We have a...
A...
Several million test cases that are possible.
And if we were to do a test pass in the amount of time that it would be valuable, we would need about a million testers to execute the test pass in about five minutes.
Because all of that would change.
Once that test pass was done, we would have some useful information, and it would be invalid ten minutes from now.
But you have a million testers.
That's...
So that leads into...
That leads into the next...
The next aspect.
So...
This doesn't help that I know where Brent's going.
I know what he's thinking.
But there's a...
I'll interrupt for a second.
There's a theme here that we'll probably end up talking about a lot, which is that how teams approach software engineering and the roles of all disciplines, especially the roles formerly known as testers, are changing quite a bit.
Yeah.
That's true.
And one of the themes that both Alan and I very much agree with is that it's not only changing.
But it's changing significantly for the better.
That...
My point of view on this is...
I think of James Whitaker's blog post from years ago, where he stated, all of that testing is getting in the way of quality.
You know, you mentioned James Whitaker.
There's a whole class of listeners just turned off the podcast.
But we like James.
Anyway, go on.
So we went from two, and one just shifted off.
Yep.
So there was a...
We're going to dance at the end, so stay tuned.
And it's a good thing that this is...
Maybe my job here is just knock Brent off his train of thought the entire time.
Yeah.
It's amusing for Alan, but I don't know that this is good audio material.
It's fantastic.
Go on.
So there was a presentation that I did within the first couple of months to the test managers in Bing,
where I communicated, wow, what you guys own is magical.
We had 300 million test cases being executed every day.
This is something, in my prior role as test managers, I could never do.
In addition to that, they were exactly the test cases that needed to be executed that day.
When you're sitting on top of millions of test cases, one of the challenges is you don't have the muscle to understand
which ones you don't need to execute.
You, as a test manager, know you are wasting teams' time and business value
because you don't have the ability to know which of these test cases have no value to execute.
In this Bing model, you do.
It was fantastic.
One of the things I want to be clear on, though, a test case, in my way of thinking,
is a test case.
A test case is a test case.
An input being applied to some sort of program, an output observed, and a judgment being made.
And this was happening, 300 million of these things were happening every single day.
The one biggest difference, though, is it was being done by our customer.
And the problem we had is on that last judgment call.
We didn't have all the muscle we really needed to really understand what call they were making,
what was the judgment.
And as we move into more and more of a quality focus and away from a testing focus,
that's where I personally see us gaining a lot, a lot of muscle,
not only in the industry, but particularly in our company.
Cool.
We're going to have to explore that quite a bit more as we venture down this role of recording us
giving each other crap on the Internet.
So that's enough of me babbling for now.
Alan, what have you been up to lately?
Nothing.
No.
Some people may know, after Xbox One shipped, I decided to follow my manager.
He's a great manager, even if he doesn't listen to this podcast.
And move over to this small team, sort of an incubation project, which is under the Windows umbrella.
So I work in the Windows org now, which brings its own set of interesting human interactions and challenges.
I'll leave it at that for now.
But one of the things we did, we're making some big shifts in Windows.
And if you are inside or outside of Microsoft or ever heard of the way Microsoft works,
hearing the word Windows making big shifts is either shocking or you don't believe it
or you think by a big shift, meaning, you know, we're going to do nothing.
Change the startup screen.
Yeah, we'll change the startup screen.
That's funny.
So we're changing a lot of the way we do.
Windows is going to try and actually make software, like I put it, like the rest of the world does.
Our developers, many who probably have never written a unit test in their life,
are going to write unit tests, functional tests, integration tests.
One, because it's just damn more efficient for the author of the code to write those tests.
And two, because we want to take advantage of some of the things we've learned from people like Brent and others
who have been in services for a while and apply some of those.
So we're changing the concepts to testing desktop software, doing things like, you know,
we're going to flight, we're going to iterate, we're going to do all kinds of great things.
I won't go into the details because I'm sure someone will get mad that the world now knows
Windows is going to make software really well, if all goes well.
But we had, this is a big shift for a lot of people, so we did a quality day,
a one-day event where we talked about why we're making the changes, what it means,
and what it means for the different disciplines and how your role kind of changes,
and lots of examples of that work.
Early on, I worked on the committee for this, and early on we decided that,
well, the original plan was like seven one-hour talks.
And whenever I go, every time I go to a conference and I start sitting in track session after track session,
I go, man, if I ever host a conference, it's going to be all 30-minute or less talks.
Because, you know, hardly anybody...
Nobody has, you know, has anything interesting to say for a whole hour.
And there's also the aspect that Alan is riddled with ADD.
Hey, Mr. Pot.
Yeah.
So, I don't know if...
Wait, is that a squirrel?
Anyway, so we had a, as I originally quoted it, a flurry of talks.
We had an opening keynote that was 45 minutes.
And then even vice presidents were limited to...
You know, anywhere from 15 to 30 minutes.
We kind of shifted times through the day.
And a couple of amazing things happened.
One was, we actually held, you know, more than 1,000 people, close to 2,000 people interested for a full day.
And two is, you know, the talks went pretty well.
People, like, felt like they got something out of it.
And that's, you know, I've been involved with other internal conferences at Microsoft.
And this one, I think, was...
Went really well.
It was...
Some talks were 10 minutes.
A lot were 15.
A lot were 20.
And it kind of told the story pretty well.
There's...
Our goal, you know, coming out of that was...
Or going into that was, let's have fewer questions.
Let's answer more questions than we generate.
And getting rid of ambiguity is always a great way to help lead change in an organization.
So, it went pretty well.
I was pretty happy with it.
I think there's still a long way to go and a lot to learn.
But I think...
I think people have an idea of kind of what it means.
Brent's raising his hand.
Excuse me.
Brent?
Bert?
Wow.
First one, we're going to go that way.
That's an inside joke.
We'll talk about that later.
So, you said something that I think is super interesting to me anyway.
So, you said that it went really well.
Did you happen to talk with a bunch of people?
I'm curious what were sort of the top five themes that came out of that?
Really?
What really resonated with folks?
The first thing I heard, the thing I heard foremost was the format worked.
And that's...
I was involved and that changed.
I was happy to hear that.
As far as people taking away things, there is...
You know, at Microsoft, we have this three-discipline system.
We have program management.
We have software development and software test, which we call quality in Windows now.
But it's the same thing.
Trying to shift the mindset by the title.
That's a topic...
Yeah, Brent just stabbed himself.
So, you know where we stand on that.
There was a good...
One of the things I love to do when I'm getting a new team put together is get the discipline leadership together.
I talk about what their team does, what their expectations are for other people.
And this was like a big forum version of that.
In talking through what the roles did, we had a lot of opportunity for everyone in the room,
all engineering disciplines, to understand what each other was responsible for and what new things they were responsible for.
So, everybody's kind of...
So, everybody's kind of in it together.
That was another big theme that came out.
And people loved...
I'll do the third theme.
People loved this.
We had a ton of examples of where data-driven quality has worked and where, you know, making...
Not just the business intelligence part of understanding how users are using the software,
but building statistical models on our analysis and using that to make predictions on how customers review software.
And examples of that, like, I think the scales shed people's eyes.
And they thought, hey!
I think I get how this can work.
Which, if you work in an org like Windows, is a huge, huge thing.
It's a...
I'll just say it's a team deeply rooted in history.
Yeah, but they are.
They have a fine tradition of producing really great code at a really great cadence.
The one thing I might say to our competitors is this.
Despite what you think about...
About Windows, our people, we have a large number of people, and they are really good at execution.
Once this culture shifts, they're going to be really good at executing in this new culture.
Absolutely.
Correct.
We have smart people.
We have good executors.
Anyway, I don't want to get on the Microsoft rah-rah bandwagon.
We have a ton of work to do, and sometimes it's frustrating, but it's...
Yeah, it's interesting to be part of this.
I haven't seen a more exciting time in my career than the time we're in right now.
I wonder if that's true across the industry.
You know, I was talking about some of this stuff, and we're going to wrap up in a minute here for those of you that are extremely bored.
But I remember talking about some of this stuff just about a year ago, about some of the changes we were making on my...
I think I was on Xbox then.
Sorry, I had to think for a second.
Okay.
It's been a blur.
So just so you guys know, Alan spent five years last year in Xbox.
Yes, I did.
It's all a blur.
I should have got an extra five-year service award just for my two years on Xbox.
Yeah.
But I described some of the things, you know, right, this is where we need to go.
It's cutting edge, da-da-da.
I remember talking to someone outside of Microsoft, and the quote was, this would all be revolutionary if it weren't already happening.
And I'm glad to get into the world here.
And I'm excited.
It's a fun time to be here.
The positive thing for our company in this front is that it is already happening.
There's lots of examples.
We're well-motivated because several competitors are succeeding with this type of model where we're still struggling.
That's a lot of words there, getting our butts kicked.
Yes.
All right.
I think that's enough for today.
We have lots more to talk about, but we'll get to it next time.
Arlene Coffee.
The coffee list is not exhausted.
I'm Alan.
Thanks for listening.
And I'm Brent.
And have a fantastic week.